## Why You Should Learn Javascript

Choosing a programming language was never an easy task, especially nowadays when there are literally over 200 of them out there. So, what do you do? You simply ask for help on the Internet. Googling, reading and clicking through sites and forums only to end up with approximately 10 suggested languages, like C/C++, Java, Python, PHP, Ruby and somewhere in the end you’ll see Javascript. At least, that’s how it looked like 8 years ago when I decided to learn how to program.

Each of these languages had, and still has, some valid reasons to choose it. For example, C is used on Linux, C++ is used on game engines and video games, Java is used on Android apps and PHP was used, initially, on Facebook. Javascript, in contrast, didn’t have any of that, at the time. Javascript was the language in which these annoying popups were written. Javascript was the language in which these dodgy animations were designed and it was the reason why the x or y website was working, just fine, on Chrome and not on Internet Explorer and vice versa. That’s how Javascript was showcased on the web.

Javascript’s bad reputation was based on two key points. Ironically, the first reason it was considered a 'bad' language is the reason it is now a good one: its entry level. Javascript is a very straight forward language, with no fuzzy or difficult parts. It needs the bare minimum for it to run: an editor and a browser. Anyone having those two - and some basic programming knowledge - can create a Javascript application. The second reason was the lack of specification. There weren’t any coding styles, best practices, tips and tricks. So, the combination of those two produced programs with different coding styles. Most of them were messy, inconsistent, inefficient and hardly readable.

So, now that you met the ugly face of Javascript and you are all biased, I’m going to try and convince you otherwise. Why should you learn Javascript then? What has changed? Is it worth your time and effort? The answer, of course, is YES. Javascript has changed completely over the last few years. Its biggest disadvantage has been vanished by ECMA (European Computer Manufacturers Association), the organization that standardized and, eventually, redeemed Javascript as a language.

The ECMA standardization led to readable, efficient and easier to implement business logic. More and more programmers started to use Javascript, mostly for Front-End development. So, in 2009 a programmer called Ryan Dahl, created a Javacript runtime environment called NodeJS that allows Javascript to run on the server. That, means that a Front-End developer is, theoretically (This is important!), capable of writing Back-End code. A year later, a package manager was introduced for NodeJS called npm (node package manager) that made sharing open source code extremely easy. After that, a wide variety of well-designed frameworks went viral, like AngularJS, React, Ember, Backbone and tools like Mocha & Chai, Karma and Jasmine made our lives simple. You can even write Javascript code for robotic purposes using cylonJS. Not to mention that Javascript is the number #1 language on StackOverflow!

What an amazing time to learn Javascript, right? 
